---
title: "Baldyga's limits and my tests"
date: 2026-06-29
layout: post
mathjax: true
---

**Tests**

The only way to test closures is to solve the equations that use the closures and compare the results with reality, other closures and references. As part of my open source species_limits.py project, I included the CVODE integrator from the excellent scikit-sundae library to solve the ODEs for each species. I used the same mixing parameters and calculations as the 2025 paper from Baldyga's group, including the analytical solution for intensity of segregation, allowing the variance of f to be calculated easily at each time (or position).  I also included the ability to perform an epsilon "sweep" from very slow mixing (1.0E-6 W/kg) to very fast mixing (1.0E+6 W/kg) with the same fixed reaction kinetics. That allows exploration of any closure over the full range of mixing timescales from almost completely segrategated reaction conditions through to almost completely well-mixed reaction conditions.  We are looking for closures that behave correctly at both ends and especially in the middle where both mixing and kinetics are influential and interact strongly.

**Baldyga's limits**

Baldyga (1994) uses a closure based on a pair of infinitely fast reaction subsets for both competitive-consecutive and competitive-parallel reactions.  In the competitive-consecutive case, he discusses how $f_{s}$ moves as the product of the first reaction is produced and the second reaction is enabled to proceed. In the 2009 and 2025 papers from his group on the full 5-reaction system, the movement of $f_{s}$ is directly calculated from the amount of R (or S) already produced during reaction. That is a powerful idea as a means of identifying a unique infinitely fast reaction limit. C(f) for all species can then be obtained by interpolation between that limit and the no-reaction / mixing line.  I implemented this method as one closure option in species_limits.py.  

**Linear interpolation between nearest limits**

**Linear interpolation between maximum and minimum limits**

**Linear combination of all limits**

**Linear interpolation between mixing line and nearest limit**

**Blended limits**

**A new idea that appears to be generally applicable**
